2018-6-15墨教交接日即17年执政纪念日演讲
2018-6-15the Mohist Handover Day（墨教交接日）and the 17th anniversary speech
想必各位已经知道，今天是交接日，墨家本时代的交接日，17年前的今天是墨家巨父去世的日子，而今天也是我执政第17周年的日子。
As you know, today is the Mohist Handover Day（交接日）, the Mohist Handover Day（交接日）of in this era. Today 17 years ago was the day of the death of the last JUZI of mohism（墨家巨父）, and today is the 17th anniversary of my rule.
类似遇上这种日子，都要进行演讲，或者各种庆祝。我们资源有限，革命远远尚未成功，同志们绝大多数依然在社会和政府的压迫下苟延残喘的生活，所以庆祝就免了。
Like this day, you have to give a speech, or you have to celebrate.We have limited resources, the revolution is far from being successful, and most of our comrades are still living under the oppression of society and government, so there is no need to celebrate.
但是演讲，还是必须的，不管你爱不爱听，想不想听，那是你们的权利，但是我还是得说。就在这里开始吧。
But you have to give a speech, whether you like it or not, whether you want to hear it or not, that's your right, but I have to say it.Let's start right here.
长期和我乃至长期进入轨道进行墨家修行的人也许都知道，我是最讨厌那些自以为是，冠冕弹簧，废话连篇，自我吹捧，歌舞升平的那一套儒棍党棍的恶习的。大墨家也是和我国普遍世俗价值观一样最不鸟这一套的。
Long and I even long into the orbit of Mohism man of practice may know that I am the most hated those who with as, crown spring, nonsense, boasting, crowing that a set of custom of Confucianism and the communist party of the evil vice.Mohists are also the most disapproved of this set of common secular values in China.
所以套话、废话、官话就免了，各位如果有任何意见，想法，反馈，可以在恰当的时候，无论公开还是私下都可以说。但要保持有秩序的说，避免出现一大堆意见一起抛来，即使是圣人再世，也不可能同时一下子处理好多个事情。
Therefore, there is no need for jargon, nonsense and official talk. If you have any comments, ideas and feedback, you can say it in public or in private at the appropriate time.But to keep it in order, and to avoid a lot of ideas thrown together, even if the sage is reincarnated, it is impossible to deal with many things at once.
目前，作为事实上的弱小的宗教，甚至可以说濒临灭亡的社团，有着断代危险的古代传承。想必是个正常的人都未必看好大墨家未来的发展。
Now, as a weak religion in fact,You could even say the dying community,There is a possible ancient inheritance from a broken generation.（有着断代危险）Surely a normal person is not necessarily optimistic about the future development of the Mohists.
正如同不同家庭出生的孩子一样，有些人投胎就已经赢在起跑线甚至终点线了。有些人出生就是残疾甚至智障乃至穷困。很多时候即使同为人类一个物种，差距依然大到了完全不具备可比性。
Just like children born in different families, some people have already won at the starting line or even at the end.Some people are born with disabilities and even mental disabilities and even poverty.In many cases, even as a species, the gap is so wide that it is not comparable at all.
我也知道，群内，乃至未来如果有人有兴趣消息传播出去的话那些世俗的人，墨家修行者外面的人，也许会看到很多公布出去的内容，也许包括今天我说的。都会有所疑惑、好奇、犹豫甚至质疑。
I also know that in the same group, and even in the future if someone is interested in the news spread out those secular, Mohism home outside the stylite（修行者）, may see many out of content, perhaps including I said today.All have doubts, curiosity, hesitation and even doubt.
我也不指望或者说压根不在乎他人后人怎么看怎么说，因为这是毫无意义的事情。事实上，历代先圣大师已经告诉过我们，墨经“同心相求，同志相得，非我族类，其心必异”，我们任何人只有和价值观取向趋同的人，团结一致的人共同组合起来，才能具备成就事业和做出价值的最基本的可能性。你无法劝说一个和你完全不是一个脑子和一个体系模式的外人去认同你然后加入联盟合作共赢，这是基本不可能的，但是你完全可以去寻找和自己志同道合，价值观一致的伙伴们，才有做起事情的充分不必要条件，而慢慢产出的成就和各种“奇迹”，将会给外人一个个神话一样的印象，最终才具备可能颠覆社会乃至整个世界的价值导向。
I don't expect or care what people will say, because it's meaningless.In fact, the every holy master have told us, the OldMohism（墨经）:"Value same,faith same,others will follow our values.Value different,faith different,Others will not follow our values."Any one of us can only have the most basic possibility to accomplish a career and make a value if we are united with those who share the same values and values.You won't be able to persuade a and you is not a brain and a system model of an outsider to agree with you and join the alliance win-win cooperation, this is the basic impossible, but you can look for and his like-minded, values consistent partners, are necessary and sufficient condition of things, and achievements and the output of all kinds of "miracle", slowly will be impressed as people outside each myth, finally have may upset the social value orientation and even the whole world.
17年的时间，说长，对一个人来说很长，它从我的童年尚未具备完全民事责任开始，甚至可以说很多方面不得已被长辈在资源和行动上自由限制开始，一直到今天自己在社会上参加工作，在新时代中还不能敢说自己完全保证经济全面独立。你就可以知道举步维艰，革命的事业非常艰难，即使很长的时间依然无法得到理想中的回报。
17 years, said long, for a person is very long,It since my childhood has yet to have complete civil liability, or even many aspects also is limited by resources and actions from family,Until now, I have been working in the society. In the new era, I cannot say that I can fully guarantee economic independence.You know, it's hard,it's very hard.The revolutionary cause is very difficult, and even for a long time it will not get the desired return.
正如同在座各位有些具有雄心壮志，希望未来创业也好，独立组件科研团队也好，为了自己的专业擅长去不断编纂技术资料整理学习也好，希望未来不断救助他人也好，你们和我都一样，是为了那个梦想而不断奋斗。
Just like everybody here some have ambition, hope that the future business, independent scientific research team, for the sake of their own professional is good at to compile technical documentation study, hope that the future constantly rescue his people, you and I are the same that is constantly struggle for the dream.
越是伟大的事业，越需要时间的积淀，漫长的煎熬，超越当时时代的眼光，细密的规划，结交并组合使用手上有限的资源。即使争取用尽自身乃至团队的才干也未必能够保证一定得到收益，甚至会遥遥无期。
The more great career,need the more time accumulation, long suffering, beyond the vision of The Times, careful planning, and the use of the limited resources at hand.Even if we try to use up our own and the team's talents, we may not be able to guarantee certain benefits, even if it is far away.
我一般不喜欢在教育中歌功颂德，随意赞赏别人，各位如果有长期接触我知道我的人也许都知道。我是从世俗看是一个相当奇葩变态，死板顽固，死不要脸，口出狂言，整天找茬，心比天高，怪才奇异，完全无法理喻的一个如同神话传说中的人物一样的存在。在我有生之年到目前为止，被我批判，责骂，谴责，吐槽，否决的不计其数，其中有差不多三分之一是对自己的扬弃和反思，差不多二分之一是对目前局势和国家社会的批判。
I generally don't like to praise people in education and praise them freely. If you have a long-term contact with me, everyone may know me.I'm from secular look is a very abnormal condition, rigid stubborn, dead shameless, daring to search many problem for all day.The mind is higher than the sky, the ability is outstanding and strange, completely unable to understand the existence of a mythical legend as a character.By me in my lifetime so far, criticism, blame, blame, ridicule, countless veto, with almost a third of them are on their own sublation and reflection, nearly 1/2 One is on the current situation and the national social criticism.
过于不切实际的赞赏和美言，如同甜蜜的毒药，会让你在安逸中舒适，甜蜜中变成蠢蛋，在自我淫荡中膨胀，最终走向如同中国共产党现在一样的，唯我独尊，吹牛装逼，歌舞升平，自我感觉良好，天天伟光正，只能看到自己优势而看不到自己忧患的僵尸一样的让人感觉可恨的，又这样的虚伪奸诈的可怜的人。
Too unrealistic praise and kind words, like a sweet poison, make you comfortable in comfort, sweet get into a fool, expansion in the self sensuality, ultimately to like the communist party of China now, just me, brag to drunby, crowing, feel good, wei guangzheng everyday, can only see their advantages and can't see their suffering the same let a person feel hateful zombie, and the false and tricky poor people.
真正爱你们的人，如同智慧的园丁，会对不符合功能和养分的树木花草的部分枝节进行裁剪和切除。如同敏锐的屠夫，会如同庖丁解牛一样将牲畜的肉和内脏切割好分类打包。如同严苛的教官，会对子弟兵以残酷猛烈的训练，这样在战场上才能更好的活下去甚至取胜。
Those who truly love you, like wise gardeners, will cut and cut off branches of trees and plants that do not conform to their functions and nutrients.Like a sharp butcher, he cuts and packs the meat and guts of livestock like a butcher,then classification of packaging.Like strict instructors, they will train their troops ruthlessly and fiercely, so that they can survive and even win on the battlefield.
有句话说得好，随着帝国的起起伏伏，看得多了，你也能够预见未来。正如同江山易改，本性难移，狗改变不了吃屎的本性。历史如同一个正弦曲线一样，迭起兴衰，起起伏伏，千百年来，多少英雄豪杰登场，多少文明崛起而又消逝在历史的长河之中。
There is a saying that, with the rise and fall of the empire, you can see more and see the future.Just like empire easy to change, the nature of the dog can not change the nature of eating excrement.History, like a sinusoidal curve, is full of ups and downs, ups and downs, ups and downs.
我大墨家是幸运的，也是艰辛的。从接近7000年前的开山鼻祖神农氏一世姜瑜纥，到约公元前2100年夏朝师祖的国师，孤竹公国和墨池大公的始祖姜墨如，到公元前468年的墨教创立的先知祖师爷子墨子，再到1722年遭受机关城（圣地中心）焚毁的郑靖瑞，再到今天我在这里给你们说话，历经约七千年。
My Mohist is lucky and hard.Takes from nearly 7000 years ago,the first ShenNong JiangYuHe（神农氏一世姜瑜纥）,Grandmaster to about 2100 BC the xia dynasty National Teacher College, and GuZhu & MoChi（孤竹国和墨池国）,The ancestor of the king JiangMoRu（姜墨如）.By 468 BC, the founder of Mohism religious,the prophet,MoDi.（子墨子墨翟）Then in 1722,ZhenJinRui（郑靖瑞）,the centre of the holy land was burned down.And I am here today to speak to you, about seven thousand years.
中间有崛起和辉煌，也有黯淡和衰落，有领先世界的骄傲，也有落后与时代的无奈，有值得自豪的文明壮举，也有值得反思的历史局限性。历史种种盖棺后方能全面评论，是非功过自有后人在他们自己立场的不同角度来说。
There is rise and glory, there is gloom and decline, there is pride in being ahead of the world, there is also backwardness and the absence of The Times, there is a proud feat of civilization, and there are historical limitations worth reflecting on.History can only be fully commented upon at the end of time, whether it is due to merit or not.
作为一个有约七千年的黄金家族，后来发展到华夏的贵族联盟，后来扩展到了跨越血缘和身份的在中原地区的神圣宗教，乃至后来的后来在局势中的各种磨练和捶打。墨家一直还是墨家一直都在变化，墨家一直还是墨家一直都没有变化。
As a golden family of about seven thousand years,And then the Chinese aristocratic league,Later extended to the sacred religion in the central plains across blood ties and identities,Even later in the situation suffered all kinds of setbacks and tribulations.Mohists have been changing, Mohists also have not changed.
可以说，在中国成为一个国家之前，大墨家已经诞生。你会发现，任何的改变，任何的进程，都源于意识，都源于做出改变和进程的人的大脑的判断，和内心的价值取向。这才是人性中永恒不会变化的，也是无论时代和外界如何变化之中的，仅少数不会变化的可以作为地图参照的经纬度。
It can be said that before China became a country, the great Mohist was born.And what you'll find is that any change, any process, comes from consciousness, from the judgment of the brain and the inner value orientation of the person who made the change and the process.This is the eternal in human nature, and no matter how The Times and the outside world change, only a few things will not change, just like the latitude and longitude of the map reference.
数据是一切意识的最小单位，学过IT都知道字符和字节组成的数据。数据的有机结合，是各种知识点，各种道理，好比电脑中的某个模块和功能，它如同夸克组成的原子，介子，质子等基本粒子一样。而各种知识点和道理的有机组合，是如同电脑中某个软件和程序，在化学和生物中如同原子等各种基本粒子组成的分子，即物质的最小单位。
Data is the smallest unit of consciousness, and all who have studied IT know the data made up of characters and bytes.The organic combination of data is all kinds of knowledge points, all kinds of reasons, like a certain module and function in a computer, it is just like the basic particles such as atoms, mesons and protons formed by quarks.And the organic combination of all kinds of knowledge and truth, is one such as with computer software and the program, as in the chemical and biological molecules composed of atoms and elementary particles, the smallest unit of matter.
而分子的有机组合，是形成了各种物质的形态，如同软件和程序的有机组合，形成了一个系统，对比人的学识，好比知识点和道理串联并连乃至组合成的有体系理论的学科科目专业和技术。
And molecular organic combination, is the shape of the formed various substances, like software and application of organic combination, form into a system, comparison of knowledge, as knowledge and truth in series and even and combined into a system of academic subjects of the theory of professional and technical.
但是无论如何，无论种类再多，无论内容再丰富多彩，历程案例再繁杂梦幻，它们都是宇宙的一部分，都是天的子民。都是统一于类似于编程中的Object总父类的子类。而这个最终的父类，这个宇宙中最大的根本，就是真理，正义，智慧，美善、法规等等一切的标准。在墨家墨学乃至墨教中，这就是“天志”。
However, no matter how many kinds, no matter how rich and colorful the content, no matter how complicated and fantastic the process cases are, they are all part of the universe and all are the children of heaven.just like Are subclasses that are uniform to something like the general parent of an Object in programming.And the ultimate superclass,is the greatest root of the universe, is the standard of truth, justice, wisdom, goodness, law, and all.In Mohism religion,this is "TianZhi".（天志）
对于天志的不断探求和理解乃至不断发现和作为唯一的，至高的，根本的，永恒的追求学习和作为尺子和圆规用来匡正校对自身修为的，才是我大墨家真正的根本的修行。以天志作为唯一导向的不断衍生出来的学科，才是真正的墨学，这整个体系才是完整的神学和哲学体系。
To "TianZhi"（天志）.To constantly explore and understand and even found and as the only, and the high, the fundamental, the eternal pursuit of learning and, as a ruler and compass is used to correct the check fix for oneself, is my the big Mohism real root of this practice.It is the real Mohism that is derived continuously with the only orientation of "TianZhi"（天志）, and the whole system is the complete theological and philosophical system.
墨经：“老天创造宇宙的时候，设置行政长官用来分管四方，目的是为了更好地把事情做好，不是为了让他们养尊处优，无所事事的耗费公共资源。”对于一切的根本的真理，历代的古圣先贤已经反复强调并记录在不同时代的经书里面，以不同时代的圣人和大师在它们所处时代的身体力行的作为不断践行着天志，这才是真的善。
The OldMohism（墨经）:"When god created the universe, setting the chief executive used to in charge of the quartet, the purpose is to get things done better, not to let them in, idle cost of public resources."For truth, the key to all of the ancient sages of past dynasties has repeatedly and recorded in the books of different age, at different times of saints and masters in their time set an example as a continuous practice of the day, it is really good.
而根本到一切的基础，是内心价值取向对真善，对天志作为唯一导向的神的追求。所谓“神在心中，工作在手上，用心铸造，用知识构建。”这些都是信仰，是一切接通神的基础。
And the fundamental basis of everything is the pursuit of the inner value orientation towards the true good and the god who is the only guide to the sky.This is "TianZhi"（天志）.God is in the heart, working in the hand, casting in the heart, building with knowledge.These are all beliefs and are the basis of all attunement to god.
信仰，是一切意识形成有机组合并接通最高的天志的唯一路径。有着正确的信仰，如同船只按照星星天球而不是按照灯光作为参照导航。拥有我大墨家天志信仰并不断在这个基础上推程出新，升级打怪，迭代进取的，就是我大墨家认可的合格的修行者的基本入门的基础。一个缺乏和迷失了信仰的人，是如同猪大肠一样是一坨还没有死亡腐烂的肉和水，一个缺乏和迷失了信仰的团队，是如同没有了固定宗旨而可以不断偷奸耍滑倾向的不可值得完全相信的不稳定的团伙。一个缺乏和迷失了信仰的国家和社会，是源源出产人民的灾难，不断制造国家的痛苦，循环展现社会的黑暗，自始自终刺激世俗的邪恶，以及毫不留情的上演人性的阴险狡诈的一个如同地狱一样的监狱。
Faith is the only way for all consciousness to form a unit that joins the highest sky,"TianZhi"（天志）.Have the right beliefs, as ships navigate by the stars rather than the lights.Those who have my great Mohist "TianZhi"（天志） belief and keep pushing new things, upgrading and fighting monsters, and iterating and forging ahead on this basis are the basic foundation for me to be a qualified practitioner of hige recognized by Mohist.A lack and lost faith, is like pig intestine is one tuo is not dead rotten meat and water, and a lack of team and lost faith, as did not have the fixed purpose and can continue to do bad things, is not worthy of all trust, an unstable gangs.A lack and lost faith, state and society is coming from the people of the disaster, the continuously manufacturing nation's pain, cycle show the darkness of the society, all the stimulus secular evil, sinister and merciless on humanity's one, the state and society as a hell of a prison.
你不按照天志作为唯一标准去践行自己，不去打通自身的神性的链接，如同你不拿着圆规去画圆，不挨着直尺去画横线，必然在无论是学习还是生活，无论是工作还是感情上都会随着时间的流逝，而走偏走邪，最终积重难返，压垮骆驼的最后一根稻草会让你变得烦躁无力，自我迷失，混乱而没有坐标。如同一台电脑，没有经历足够的硬件基础和正确优秀的软件BIOS的选择循环功能，就贸然的疯狂的吸收各种软件安装和设置调控，随着插件和设置的不断复杂，互相混乱造成的崩溃和瘫痪，是迟早的事情。
You are not in accordance with the day,the"TianZhi"（天志）, as the only standard to practice myself not to go through their divine link, as you don't take the compasses to draw circles, not close to the ruler to draw horizontal lines, inevitably in study or life, whether it is work or feelings will with the passage of time, and go partial evil, eventually the breaks the camel's a straw will make you feel irritable, self lost, confused and not coordinate.Like a computer, without enough hardware foundation and the choice of excellent software correct BIOS loop function, it protects the madness of the absorption of various software installation and setup control, with the complex, plug-in and Settings of each other and paralysis caused by the chaos, is sooner or later.
曾有修学者和外人来问我，大墨家到底教些什么，学些什么？我无法给你一个确定的回答，因为老天，因为天志，是无法用言语描述的，任何可以描述的，都是有局限性的，会封锁你的意识，可能会误导你的认识。包括我在这里说的每一句话，只要是语言，文字、图像、视频、动画等各种多媒体，不过是类似于引用数据类型的引用而已，我要表达的是如同栈内存中指向堆内存的那个对象，而无论是经书和理论的学习还是社会实践和项目的运营，都是表面而已。而最终正确导向的判断唯一标准，依然还是天志。
Scholars and outsiders came to me and asked me, what did the Mohists teach and learn?I can't give you a definite answer, because god,the"TianZhi"（天志）, cannot be described in words, anything that can describe the, is limited, will block your consciousness, may mislead you.Including every word I said here, as long as it is language, text, images, video, animation and other multimedia, but is similar to the reference number according to the type of reference, I want to say is like a stack memory refers to the object heap memory, and in both the study of the theory of ancient books and the social practice and operation of the project, is the surface only.The only criterion for correct direction is still "tianzhi"（天志）.
大墨家能够历经约7千年，历经历朝历代的磨难，多少狂妄不可一世的政权和自以为是的伟大领袖一个个死去，他们的功业一个个消逝在历史的长河里，但是我大墨家还流传至今，根本的根本，就是信仰。
the Big Mohism to after about 7000 years, suffered many hardships, and external arrogance of political oppression, but these extrinsic self-righteous regime, the great leader died one by one, one by one they had vanished in the long river of history, but Our the Mohism still Spread so far, the root of the fundamental, is faith.
墨经：“子墨子言曰：我有天志，譬若轮人之有规，匠人之有矩。”所以先知祖师爷子墨子认为天志的标准，就像制轮的人有圆规，木匠有方尺一样没有区别。
墨经：“天下无人，子墨子之言也犹在。”即使到了世界末日，宇宙毁灭，先知祖师爷子墨子的教导（天志、兼爱、真理、正义、美善、标准）依然永垂不朽！
The OldMohist（墨经） says: "And the prophet "MoDi"（先知祖师爷子墨子） said, I have an idea of "TianZhi"（天志）, It's like making a wheel out of a compass and drawing a straight line with a ruler."Therefore, "MoDi"（先知祖师爷子墨子）, the founder of the prophet, believed that the standard of "TianZhi"（天志） was just like that of a man making a wheel out of a compass and drawing a straight line with a ruler.The OldMohist（墨经） says: "Even at the end of the world and the end of the universe, the teachings of "MoDi"（先知祖师爷子墨子）, the father of the prophet, are immortal."Even in the end of the world, the destruction of the universe, the teachings of "MoDi"（先知祖师爷子墨子）, the father of the prophet, the teachings of the gods, love, truth, justice, beauty and goodness, will be immortal!
我承认，我们并不完美，墨家也并不完美，世界就没有完美的事情。墨经“甘瓜苦蒂，天下之物无全美”。但是问题是你能够在修行中，不断完善自己，不断发现问题，不断正确的提出问题，不断的反思问题，不断的找到正确的需求，在天志信仰系统的明灯之下，在正义和神的一方，不断的身体力行去升级打怪，自身迭代循环上升的去接受每一次考验。这就是修行的历程。作为你们的领袖，你们的前辈，也作为一个“老”修行者这是我告诉你们的唯一的路径。
I admit, we are not perfect, Mohism is not perfect, there is no perfect thing in the world.The OldMohist（墨经） says:"No matter how sweet the melon is, melon's root is also bitter. There is no perfect thing in the world."But the problem is that you can in practice, constantly improve themselves, found the problem unceasingly, the right to ask questions constantly, constantly reflect on, constantly finding the right requirements,the "TianZhi"（天志）, in the light of belief systems, on the side of justice and of god, constant practice to solve the problem, its iterative cycle rise to accept every test.This is the process of self-cultivation.As your leaders, your predecessors, and as an "old" practitioner this is the only path I have told you.
所以，我反复强调，在教育中，鼓励大家提出问题，正确的提问题，提高质量的问题。信息时代已经来临很久了，但是很多人还是停留在古板的原始社会，技术标准日新月异，我都要每日阅读各种技术资料，不断自我迭代学习。唯有学贯古今中外，唯有历经世事沧桑，有价值的在正确的天志信仰的基础上的连续历程十五年之上，才具备称呼大师的基础入门资格。英雄不是一天就连起来的，伟大的城堡也并非一日可以修建好，对比古圣先贤，7千年来说，我这17年实在是不值一提。
So, again and again, in education, I encourage you to ask questions, to ask questions correctly, to improve quality.Information age has come for a long time, but many people have thought or stay in the primitive society, the technical standards with each passing day, I have to read daily all kinds of technical data, self iterative learning constantly.Only through learning from the past, the present and the world, and only through the vicissitudes of the world and the valuable continuous process of 15 years on the basis of correct tianzhi belief, can we have the basic qualification to call a master.Heroes are not built in a day, and great castles are not built in a day. Compared with the ancient sages, these 17 years are not worth mentioning.
变化的是展示模式和形式，不变的是内心的信仰和对神的忠诚，对天志信仰系统的不断学习和实践。唯有如此，也只有如此，才能不断的在历史的进程中，一次次的迭代自身，随着时间的流逝和经验的积累，不断升级不断迭代，不断走向更加强大和完美。我们本身就不完美，完美的是我们能够让自己不断完美。墨家之所以伟大，不是因为它本来就伟大，而是我们能让它不断伟大。而我们要做的就是不断进步完善。
What changes is the mode and form of display, what remains unchanged is the inner belief and the loyalty to god, and the continuous learning and practice of the belief system of "TianZhi"（天志）.Only in this way, can only so, constantly in the course of history, the iterative itself again and again, with the passage of time and experience accumulation, and constantly upgrade the iteration, to strengthen and perfect constantly.We are not perfect. What is perfect is that we can make ourselves perfect.Mohism is great not because it is great, but because we can make it great.And what we need to do is keep improving.
古典的最基础的学识，和新时代最前端的科研，并非有任何冲突矛盾。历代的古圣先贤，墨家历代的巨子和大师，都是在他们所处的那个时代，在拥有自己的资源的基础上，尽自己的实力已经做到最好。而我接过这个接力棒，和他们一样也不一样，一样的是天志信仰，不一样的是时代和经历的社会科技变革造成的游戏难度的增加。
There is no conflict between the most basic knowledge of the classics and the most advanced scientific research of the new age.The ancient saints and sages of the past dynasties, the great "JuZi"（墨家巨子） and masters of the Mohists in the past, were all in their own time, on the basis of having their own sources of capital, to do their best.And I took this baton, and like them, it is different, the same is the belief in the sky, different is The Times and the social technological changes experienced by the increase in the difficulty of the game.our life is the game.
学习什么，或者做什么不过是不同领域和专业乃至象限的表现形式而已，变化的是时代和实现技术手段，以及功能展示角度，不变的是对人性美善的传播，对天志的唯一价值导向，还有对现在和未来挑战的欢迎和警惕。
Learning something, or doing something, is just a representation of different fields and disciplines and even quadrants.What's changing is the age and the means to implement technology, and the perspective of functional presentation.The dissemination of goodness of human nature is eternal, the only value orientation for "TianZhi"（天志） is to welcome and be alert to present and future challenges.
我无法祝福各位都能够功成名就，我也无法如同世俗的人都祝福你们都发财升官。我甚至还希望各位能够多体验生命中很多不美好的历程，因为你们只有经历过死，所以才会留恋生的美好，因为只有你们只有感受到黑暗的痛苦，才能不断期盼光明的预约，因为你们只有对比了邪恶和愚昧造成的各种损失和风险，你们才会珍惜正义和智慧建设的各种希望。长期身在福中的往往不自知福，而幸福是和平时期想起战争的残酷和痛苦，感到愉快是舒适的时候想起限制和灰暗的难受。
I cannot wish you all success and success, nor can I wish you all more and more money and more and more positions of office, just as people in the world do.And I even hope that you will experience many of the worst things in your life.Because you have only experienced death, so you will love the beauty of life.Because only when you feel the pain of darkness can you keep looking forward to a bright appointment.For only by comparing the losses and risks of evil with the risks of folly will you cherish the hopes of the building of justice and wisdom.For a long time in happiness, we often do not know what is good.Happiness is the thought of the cruelty and suffering of war in peacetime, and being happy is remembering suffering when you are comfortable.
所以，对邪恶黑暗，对愚昧和淫荡等各种负面的品性不彻底批判的人，很难说他是真正正直而善良的人。一个人对邪恶有多么痛恨，恰恰他就对善良有多少追求；一个人对黑暗有多么软弱，那么他对光明就有多么拖延。邪恶往往不是因为坏人太狠，而往往是平庸圆滑而自我妥协的人太软弱的人太多了。比如我国目前的现状。当债多不愁，蚤多不痒，还自以为是，自我感觉良好伟光正的时候，疯狂和膨胀是上帝让你去见阎王的前兆。
Therefore,it is hard to say that a man is truly upright and virtuous if he does not thoroughly criticize evil, darkness, ignorance, lewdness and other negative attributes.How much a man hates evil, and how much he pursues good;How weak a man is to darkness, how long he delays to light.Evil is often not because bad people are too hard, but because too many people are too weak to be mediocre and tactful.For example, China's current situation.When there is much debt, there is no worry. When there are more fleas, there is no itch.When you feel good about yourself and feel good about yourself, craziness and expansion are the harbingers of death.
所以很多世俗的人会觉得我可能有时候比较偏激和变态，甚至抨击的多，批判得多。因为历史的推动，都是一群狂人，一群偏执狂推动的。从来没有一群平庸，温文尔雅，彬彬有礼的人，可以真正推进历史的进程，起到推程出新的效果的。
Therefore, many secular people may think that I may sometimes be more extreme and abnormal, and even often angrily accuse and condemn.Because history is driven by a bunch of maniacs, a bunch of bigotry.There has never been a group of mediocre, gentle and polite people who can really advance the course of history and make new progress.
独乐乐不如众乐乐，我对各位的教育，就是希望把大家都激发的“疯狂变态”，只有所有的人都能够嫉恶如仇，只有所有人都愿意合作，团结组合在天志信仰之中，那么美好家园，事件乐土，大同社会才有建设好的可能性。
Pleasure should share with EveryOne.And I'm talking to your education, which is the crazy freak that you all want to inspire.Only all can hate ugliness, only all are willing to cooperate.Unity and combination in the "TianZhi"（天志） faith, such a beautiful home, happy land for events, and the possibility of building a harmonious society can be build.
美好的家园，桃花源不是靠一个乃至几个精英和领袖可以设定好的，领袖越伟大，人民越渺小，领袖越淫荡，人民越痛苦。开启民智，运用先进的管理和恰当的资源分配，才能开启激发众人的智慧，优势互补，才能真正合作共赢。
A beautiful homeland, taohuayuan is not set by one or even a few elites and leaders. The greater the leader, the smaller the people, the more lewd the leader, the more painful the people.Only by opening up the wisdom of the people and using advanced management and appropriate resource allocation can we tap into the wisdom of all, draw on each other's strengths, and truly achieve win-win cooperation.
所谓圣人，就是以救助天下为事业的人，是带领开启明智并按照天志信仰孜孜以求不断推进建设的人。所谓大师，是跨平台，跨专业，跨领域，跨对象，跨学科、跨行业，兼爱天下，博采众长不断迭代不断学习且服务四方为利四方教导的老师。
The so-called sage is the person who takes the salvation of the world as the cause, and is the one who leads the wise and the diligent pursuit of continuous construction in accordance with the belief of heaven.The so-called master, it is cross-platform, cross major, interdisciplinary, across objects, interdisciplinary, cross-industry, universal love, informed iterative learning and service square for the square teacher taught.
而成圣成仙的道路上，升级打怪的历程中，如何开启更多人的自我挖掘的权限，如何将信仰和智慧传播给更多的人，甚至是动植物乃至宇宙内的一切，是老天希望的喜闻乐见的，也是天志所追求的。伟大的宗教家神学家，伟大的先知和圣贤大师，和伟大的企业家和投资家，伟大的征服者和伟大的政治家一样，都把天下作为自己目前和未来的所有领土，把天下所有人作为自己目前和未来所有需要传播的对象，把天下作为自己的胸怀囊括的胸中之物。如此才是大格局，才有大需求，才能到达大境界和不断按照此目标追求到更全的高度。
And holy immortal road, upgraded to play in the course of a strange, how to open more self mining rights, how to spread to more people faith and wisdom, and even all animals and plants and even within the universe, is god wish happy, is also the day he pursues.the"TianZhi"（天志）.Great religious theologians, great prophets and sages master, and a great entrepreneur and investor, great conquerors and a great politician, are all the world as their current and future territory, put all the all people in the world as their current and future needs to pass information of objects, they put the whole world the world as a part of yourself.Only in this way can we achieve a greater goal and achieve a more complete goal.
我也说过了，现在乃至未来，随着人工智能的崛起和普及，还有人权民主的普及，多领域多专业多行业多区域合作已经势在必行，未来，伟大的政治家，伟大的征服者，伟大的企业家，伟大的投资家，伟大的教育家，伟大的宗教家，伟大的神学家，伟大的先知和圣贤大师，都会不断合并合作，因为世界即是你的也是我的，是天下所有人的，唯有众志成城，唯有融通交汇，唯有抛弃成见，抛开门派争斗之分，才能更大的形成利益最大化。从长远看，多领域的合作一定不是你死我活的历史上的霸业的争斗，而是不断如茶和水交融一般的共同长进。在未来技术手段的实现如同打游戏按鼠标一栋楼就建设起来的时候，人类的神性的接通，对天志信仰的追求，才是终极的无限的探索，天下万教合一的趋势，融合成大一统的地球村乃至未来的宇宙联盟会不断变得可能和实现。
And as I said, now and in the future, with the rise of artificial intelligence and popularization, and the popularization of human rights and democracy, and much more professional in the field of many industry it is imperative to have more regional cooperation, and in the future, the great politician, great conqueror, great entrepreneurs and great investor, the great educator, great religious family, great theologians, master of the great prophets and sages, are constantly consolidated cooperation, because the world is you and I, is the all people in the world, only has the unity is strength, only accommodation, only abandon prejudices, despite united struggle, to the formation of a greater benefit maximization.In the long run, multidisciplinary cooperation must not be a zero-sum historical struggle, but a constant growth as tea and water merge.The realization of the technology in the future like playing games by the mouse when a building is built up, the divinity of human through, the pursuit of "TianZhi"（天志） faith, is the ultimate unlimited exploration, the unity of the world than teach trend, fused into a large series of global village and the future of the universe is increasingly likely alliance and implementation.
我承认，我讲的很多内容，恐怕看过的人听过的人可能都会很烧脑，很多会不懂，很多会不会，很多会不明白，很多会不理解。这很正常，这不是完全你们的错，而是之前的历史经历，还有你们所受的教育背景和学习基础造成的历史遗留问题。但是我想说的是，我希望从现在开始，各位从自己开始，希望自己和未来共同繁荣的，都要有意识的去修炼自己，可能你们找不到属于自己的老师，我毛遂自荐一个。
I admit that a lot of what I've said, I'm afraid that people who have seen it will be crazy, many will not understand, many will not understand, many will not understand, many will not understand.It's normal. It's not entirely your fault, it's your past history, and it's your education background and learning foundation that's left over from history.But I want to say is, I hope from now on, you start from oneself, hope to own and common prosperity in the future, will consciously to ascend oneself, maybe you can't find belongs to own teacher, I recommend myself.
不懂得东西多了去了，不会的东西是无限的，我们会的东西都是有限的，我也是每天都在自我学习，自我提升，自我修炼，自我成长，我也是很多都不懂，很多都不会，很多都不清楚，很多都不敢妄自菲薄。但是教你们绰绰有余。愿意为了自己也为了墨家，关键是为了践行天志贡献自身力量。
A lot of things I still don't understand, I don't understand the content of the range is unlimited, and we know the scope is limited, I also am every day in self study, self improvement and self cultivation and self growth, I also don't know a lot of, can't many, many are not clear, many of them dare not self-righteous.But that's more than enough to teach you.Willing to contribute to himself and to the mohist, the key is to contribute to the practice of "TianZhi"（天志）.
17年了，感谢造就这一段历史的所有人，无论是我们自己人，还是曾经和我们合作过的，给予我们机会的贵人，甚至是阻碍我们发展的各种因素我们都要反思。革命尚未成功，远远尚未成功，同志们仍需努力。
17 years on, and thanks to all who have made this history, whether it be our own, or the kind guides who have worked with us, who have given us opportunity,We should reflect on even the factors that hinder our development.The revolution has not succeeded, far from it, and comrades still need to work hard.
我年岁越来越大，明显感到记忆力越来越差，身体机能也和20岁比有时候感觉到虚弱和低落，这是正常的。没有永恒的永恒，但是我的心如同幼儿一样年轻而纯洁，所以走在大街上依然有很多人看到我以为我才20左右。
As I got older and older, it became apparent that my memory was getting worse and worse, and that my physical functioning was sometimes weaker and lower than it was at 20, which was normal.There is no eternity, but my heart is as young and pure as a child, so many people still see me in the street and think I am only about 20.
天爱世人，永世长存，大墨天志，万寿无疆。我虽旧邦，其命尤新，玄鸟飞日，凤凰涅盘。诸位兄弟姐妹们，在接下来的日子里希望继续深入共同奋进！
The sky god,heaven loves the world, forever and ever.The big Mohist "TianZhi"（天志）,never die and love around the world.Though I am old, my life is new.Mystery bird（玄鸟） flying day over the sun,such as the Phoenix nirvana（凤凰涅盘）,Brothers and sisters, in the coming days, we hope to continue to work together!
过去已经成为历史，未来即将到来，现在的选择，和不断的每一次选择，造就了各位的命运，无论成败，人生在于经历和过程。过程远比最终的结果更加重要。博弈的胜负未可知，但是天志的信仰永恒所在。愿老天祝福！
The past has become the history, the future is coming, the choice of the present, and the constant choice of each time, have created your destiny, no matter success or failure, life lies in the experience and process.The process is far more important than the end result.The outcome of the game is unknown, but "TianZhi"（天志）'s faith is eternal.God bless you!
你们每个人，都拥有具备自己独特的优势，你们每个人都是尚未完全开发的具有未来可能成就道路上的玩家。而道路和目标是自己选择的。墨经“我自大神，自造自身”，每一次的选择，在自我意识的指导下，形成了循环，造就了历史和命运。祝福各位能够携手共进。我说完了。
Each of you has your own unique strengths, and each of you is an under-developed player on the road to future success.And the path and the goal are your choice.The OldMohism（墨经）, "I am the great god, I make myself", and each choice, under the guidance of my own consciousness, forms a cycle, which creates history and fortune.I wish you all the best.I'm done.

修学者刘希贤的感想：
感想：
首先对墨家巨父去世表示缅怀，其次我想说刘兄演讲得很好，引经据典，精益求进，我粗略浏览了下，有以下几点感想：

一，墨经中“同心相求，同志相得，非我族类，其心必异”。
这16个字精简概括了价值观取向趋同，团结一致的重要性，就如同一个你上次说的一个年轻力壮的小伙子打不过十个大妈一样，这是成就事业和做出价值的基本。


二，看得多了，你也能够预见未来。
这也说明万物运动发展都有其规律，纵观历史文明就知道，每个朝代兴衰都其原因都有相似之处，再比如社会的奖惩机制不协调，导致善者选择守退，恶者肆意妄为。


三，从接近7000年前的开山鼻祖神农氏一世姜瑜纥，到约公元前2100年夏朝师祖的国师，孤竹公国和墨池大公的师祖姜墨如，到公元前468年的墨教创立的先知祖师爷子墨子，再到1722年遭受机关城（圣地中心）焚毁的郑靖瑞，再到今天我在这里给你们说话，历经约七千年。
说实话，墨家在我学习范围就知道兼爱，非攻，是为了应付考试，你懂的，这段文明是该让我们铭记。

四，而这个最终的父类，这个宇宙中最大的根本，就是真理，正义，智慧，美善、法规等等一切的标准。在墨家墨学乃至墨教中，这就是“天志”。
这点说到了全文的重点，所谓墨家信仰，即是用天志概括，用现代语言即是标准，就是这个标准应该于时俱进，跟上实际生活变化，像刘兄说的每个老百姓都能有权利发表意见，用手机等电子设备。

五，但是问题是你能够在修行中，不断完善自己，不断发现问题，不断正确的提出问题，不断的反思问题，不断的找到正确的需求，在天志信仰系统的明灯之下，在正义和神的一方，不断的身体力行去升级打怪，自身迭代循环上升的去接受每一次考验。这就是修行的历程。
很喜欢升级打怪这个比如，只有跟上时代的脚步，不断提升自己，才能不被社会淘汰，比如AI的进步发展，很难想象这一跨越，会有多少人因此失业，到那时只有学习才能谈成功。


六，因为你们只有经历过死，所以才会留恋生的美好，因为只有你们只有感受到黑暗的痛苦，才能不断期盼光明的预约，因为你们只有对比了邪恶和愚昧造成的各种损失和风险，你们才会珍惜正义和智慧建设的各种希望。
这句话有点小说中看淡红尘世外高人的味道，但也不是没有道理，恰恰很多人就是因为濒临绝境才恍然大悟，没有珍惜当前，如好赌之人，为了一时愉悦，想着走捷径致富，结果更多的是倾家荡产，妻离子散的结果。
?
最后，革命尚未成功，远远尚未成功，同志们仍需努力。
我记得这句话是孙中山的题词，不管当时历史用于哪个方面，意思是正能量的，激励着人们继续探索更好的道路，寻求希望，毕竟世间万物没有绝对性，每个人都有自己的看法，但是当我们置身于汪洋，无法自救时，应该抓住任何上船的机会，这样能继续谈未来，谈发展。
?
小弟不才，以上是我摘取刘兄演讲稿几句话，针对性的几点看法，有不妥请指正，谢谢。